Let's talk a little bit about language
types to understand where Go is right now.
So we have different kind of languages.
We have languages where
developers are writing code.
And then we are shipping source code,
such as JavaScript,
Python, okay, Ruby maybe.
We have some languages where we
actually go into compile code,
but not into the binary final code for
one specific
architecture, but
in an intermediate language.
And typically, we ship bytecode.
So we deploy bytecode, and
that's, for example, Java or C#.
So we compile.
We don't deploy .java files,
we deploy .class files typically
grouped in a container.
And then we have compiled languages
that are actually creating
directly machine codes.
So a code that executes
directly in one CPU within
the context of one operating system.
And here we have Go.
By the way, that's the mascot,
okay, of Go.
So Go is here, it's a compiled language.
However, we already mentioned
that also Go can ship
source code as in
transpiling into JavaScript.
They can also ship bytecode, for example,
into WebAssembly, that is, WebAssembly
the format, the WebAssembly container is
kind of a bytecode and also machine code.
That is what we will do here today, okay?
But we are there, so
we don't compare go with Python in
terms of the nature of the language.
We compare that more with C, okay?
So fundamentals of the Go syntax.
Basic rules, we use .go files.
We saw that in action.
We use code blocks, curly braces.
So we don't care as in Python
about spaces or tabs that we have.
We don't care about indentation,
it's just about curly braces.
We don't have a styling freedom,
and you didn't see that yet,
but you will in 15 minutes.
We do have semi-colons to separate
sentences, but it's optional.
And the best practice is not to
use them unless, for some reason,
we are defining two sentences
in the same line, okay?
So if you have two prints in the same
line, well, you must separate those print
calls with a semi-colon, but we are not
going to see semi-colons a lot, yeah.
>> Does that mean it reads
new line as a delimiter?
>> Yeah, so a new line is a delimiter,
but it's not always true because,
let me show you something,
and that's a spoiler.
I can do this.
And you can see it's giving me an error,
okay, say, let me open from here.
What's going on here?
What is that?
Have a lot of errors.
That's first one to go, this one.
A string literal not terminated, but
I can make it work pretty easily,
and also,
I can print more stuff and
go to a new line.
And on some situations, well,
we didn't create variables yet, so
I don't wanna show you that.
So I mean, what I wanna say here is
that it's not like every time you
have a new line, it's a new sentence.
So the compiler will have its own rules,
and most of the time,
it works as expected, okay?
And by the way,
the same happens in JavaScript.
In JavaScript, semicolons are optional,
but typically,
this is changing right now, but typically,
the design guideline is to use it, okay?
But maybe that's changing, well, not here.
So in Go, and that's also
applicable to Swift and Kotlin,
we don't use semicolon
unless we need that.
For example, if I have two
print declarations like this,
this is not gonna work because it says,
no,
you need to go to a new line or
you use semicolon, okay?
But it's for some special cases.
We are not going to use them.
If you are used to that, yeah,
you need to train your brain, okay?
Use the machine learning capability that
you have in your brain to train it to not
use semicolons.
Okay, so
we already said that it's optional.
So we do have them, but it's optional.
It's a case-sensitive language.
So a name variable with capital N or
with lowercase n is not the same variable,
okay?
It's case-sensitive.
It's strongly typed, so which means
if you're coming from Python or
JavaScript, you need to get
used to work with types.
So every variable will have a type and
we can't change that type dynamically.
We will see later how we can
do some dynamic things because
sometimes we have some use cases.
But first, let's start,
this is a strongly typed language.
And it's not an object-oriented language.
We don't create classes.
We don't create objects.
So no classes,
also we don't have exceptions.
Try-catch, no, they don't exist here.
We don't have something
known as an exception.
We do have a way to throw a fatal error.
We will see how to do that.
And also we have a design
pattern to work with errors, and
we will see how that works as well.
But that's not what you
know as exceptions.
We don't have try-catch.
It's going to be something different.
Again, if you're asking, why, why?
Remember there are three goals,
that's why.
Adding that will probably,
in this case,
affect execution performance.
So we have typically one file
acting as the entry point.
That's the one that we need so far.
It has a main function.
Then we're going to start adding more
stuff, for example, what's a package?
A package is a folder, okay?
We will start working
with that in a minute.
Packages can have simple names such as,
services, utilities, data, or URLs.
So you can actually use
a URL as a package name, but
doesn't need to actually match a real URL.
And within one Go file, so
in .go file we can have variables,
functions, so far we did only
one function, type declarations,
we haven't seen one yet,
and methods declaration.
We will cover all of this, okay?
But we will have Go files with variable
functions, type declarations, and
methods declaration.
There is a constant, well, that typically
goes under the variables umbrella.
And then we have modules.
What's a module?
Roughly and quickly, a quick and
dirty definition, a project.
So far, we have just created
only one file without a module.
So it wasn't actually a Go application,
it was a standalone script.
That is not common, okay?
So typically, you don't do that.
So you create a module.